Build the “Additional Opportunities” logic for the QBR Prep report using the following rules and output structure.

Goal

After the QBR Prep report is fully generated, the system must evaluate the completed report and determine whether there are any justified upsell or cross-sell opportunities. These recommendations must be based on actual report evidence and business gaps, not generic ideas. The section should briefly explain what is recommended and why, but only when the recommendation is logically supported by the report.

Core principle

The system must distinguish between:

1. Normal SEO work that should stay inside standard scope
2. SEO upsells, where more SEO depth, scale, or strategic support is needed
3. Cross-sells, where another channel outside standard SEO is the faster or more direct lever

Do not blur those categories.

Definitions

Use these exact definitions in the implementation logic:

- Standard scope opportunity:
  A problem that should be addressed inside the normal SEO roadmap through regular content, CRO, technical SEO, local SEO, service page work, content refreshes, internal linking, etc.

- Upsell:
  An SEO-related opportunity where current scope is too limited to move the opportunity fast enough or deeply enough. This means more SEO scale, more strategic support, more content production, more CRO support, more service page coverage, stronger authority-building work, or a custom SEO special project.

- Cross-sell:
  An opportunity where another channel outside standard SEO is the more direct acceleration lever. Examples include paid media, search ads, local paid search, retargeting, paid social promotion, or other non-SEO channels that can move faster than organic alone.

Non-negotiable logic

The Additional Opportunities section must only be populated when all of the following are true:

1. A real gap or growth signal exists in the report
2. The opportunity ties back to business outcomes such as admits, VOBs, calls, lead quality, local acquisition, conversion quality, or meaningful growth acceleration
3. The report contains actual evidence to support the recommendation

If those conditions are not met, do not create an opportunity just to fill the section.

Required decision framework

After the report is generated, evaluate each major gap and run it through this decision tree:

STEP 1: Identify the gap
Read the completed QBR Prep report and detect meaningful performance gaps or growth signals, such as:
- strong traffic but weak conversion
- rankings but weak admits or lead quality
- flat traffic with weak content depth
- low local visibility
- declining CTR
- strong content but weak visibility
- strong topic traction but no scale behind it
- strong SEO progress but another channel could accelerate faster

STEP 2: Ask whether the issue is already solvable inside normal SEO scope
If the issue is something the SEO team should reasonably address through the normal roadmap, do not classify it as an upsell or cross-sell yet.

STEP 3: Confirm business relevance
Only continue if the issue has a clear connection to business performance. Rankings or traffic alone are not enough.

STEP 4: Confirm evidence strength
Only continue if the report contains enough support to justify the recommendation. Do not infer major sales recommendations from weak or incomplete evidence.

STEP 5: Classify the opportunity
- If the issue should remain inside standard SEO scope, do not add an additional opportunity
- If SEO is still the correct lever, but current scope is too limited, classify as an UPSALE
- If another channel is the more direct acceleration lever, classify as a CROSS_SELL

STEP 6: Rank and limit output
Return only the top 1 to 3 additional opportunities max, ranked by:
- business impact
- evidence strength
- urgency
- fit with the client’s goals and current situation

Important guardrails

1. Do not recommend an upsell for work that is already ordinary SEO execution
2. Do not recommend a cross-sell unless another channel clearly makes more sense as the faster lever
3. Do not generate filler recommendations
4. Do not frame the recommendation like a hard sell
5. Do not present the recommendation like the client is failing
6. Frame recommendations as optional acceleration levers for clients who want to move faster

Upsell trigger logic

Recommend an UPSALE when SEO is still the right answer, but the current scope is too small, too shallow, or too slow to close the gap.

Valid upsell triggers include:

- Service/topic coverage is incomplete and more strategic coverage is needed
  Example output direction: expanded service page initiative, deeper funnel coverage, more topic cluster depth

- Brand authority is weak compared to competitors and stronger signature assets are needed
  Example output direction: premium content initiative, thought leadership assets, authority content buildout

- Traffic is flat or early traction exists, but content volume is too limited
  Example output direction: expanded content production

- Traffic is present but conversion is weak and the landing experience needs more support
  Example output direction: SEO landing page build or CRO support

- The account has an authority gap that requires a custom SEO special project
  Example output direction: digital PR, link acquisition, custom authority-building initiative
  This should be treated as a custom SEO upsell, not standard scope

Cross-sell trigger logic

Recommend a CROSS_SELL when another channel outside SEO is the more direct acceleration lever.

Valid cross-sell triggers include:

- Flat organic growth or weak conversion where paid media could test and scale messaging faster
- High-intent or ranking pages exist, but local lead generation needs faster direct support
- Strong blog/content engagement exists and there is a clear opportunity for retargeting or promotion
- Organic CTR is weak while ads dominate the SERP and paid search could protect or capture demand
- Content production is outpacing visibility and paid social/content promotion would help distribution

No-opportunity logic

Return no additional opportunity when any of the following is true:

- the issue is already appropriately handled by normal SEO work
- the report lacks enough evidence
- the issue is interesting but not tied to business impact
- the recommendation would feel like a forced sales pitch instead of a logical next step

Implementation requirements

Add a post-processing pass after the full QBR Prep report is assembled.

The generator should:
1. read the final report data
2. identify major gaps and growth signals
3. evaluate each against the decision framework above
4. generate up to 3 justified additional opportunities
5. attach them to the Additional Opportunities section

Required output schema

Use this structure for each opportunity:

{
  "type": "upsell" | "cross_sell",
  "title": "Short opportunity name",
  "why_now": "One sentence explaining why this is timely based on the current report",
  "evidence": [
    "Specific report finding or metric",
    "Specific report finding or metric"
  ],
  "recommendation": "Brief explanation of the service or channel being recommended",
  "framing": "Optional acceleration lever if the client wants to move faster"
}

Section behavior

- If there are no justified opportunities, the section should either render nothing or render a neutral message such as:
  “No additional upsell or cross-sell opportunities are recommended at this time based on the current report findings.”

- Do not force at least one recommendation

Tone requirements

The tone must be consultative, brief, evidence-based, and optional.

The section should sound like:
“Based on the current performance pattern, there is an additional opportunity to accelerate results beyond the normal SEO roadmap. If the client wants to move faster, Webserv could consider [service/channel] because [gap] is showing up in [evidence].”

Do not use aggressive sales language.
Do not use vague corporate filler.
Do not use traffic-only reasoning.
Tie recommendations to admits, lead quality, conversion quality, local acquisition, visibility gaps, or growth acceleration.

Most important final rule

Only recommend an upsell when more SEO depth is needed.
Only recommend a cross-sell when another channel is the more direct acceleration lever.
Otherwise keep the issue inside the normal SEO recommendations.

Deliverables

1. Implement the decision logic in the QBR Prep generator
2. Add the Additional Opportunities output structure to the generated report
3. Make sure recommendations are evidence-based and limited to top 1 to 3
4. Do not allow generic or unsupported opportunities to appear
5. Show me exactly which file(s) were changed
6. Show me the exact logic used to classify standard scope vs upsell vs cross-sell
7. Show me 2 to 3 example outputs based on hypothetical report findings so I can verify the quality